Little guys in our last lesson as you remember we started working with a search template file based
on our tests.
We can say it's fully functional but there's still the question.
Is it possible to change the appearance of the search box itself.
This is an important question since we didn't even create a form for this search box yet.
So how can we change the appearance of a thing.
We didn't create just start talking about that.
We're going to have to dig into some theory but I promise it won't hurt.
OK.
Now you remember from the previous lesson that if you want to include a search box in our thing used
to get search form function but in fact what does this function do.
She answer that they have to take a look at the word Codex.
So let's search for this function
and click on the first search result.
Well here it says display search form will first attempt to locate the search from that page profile
in either the child or the parent they mean child or parent themes here.
Then below that if it does not exist then the default search for will be displayed.
In fact that default search form is what you're currently loading.
Since we don't have any file called search form that page be in our thing do we.
No we don't.
So by logic it's enough if we just create that file in our theme.
By doing that we will be able to modify our search from our search box.
So let's go ahead and create the file
and see if it's working.
If it's working anything we type in here it will be displayed.
In place of our search form.
That's just typing test and let's see what happens.
OK perfect.
This means that we can't create a brand new form within this file with a different markup etc..
What before I do that a hint if you don't want to have a lot of work to do this which is always interesting
it can open the search form that page profile of any native WordPress theme and copy it.
For example let's look at a 26 things things folder and let's copy what's inside the search form that
page file space everything in our new file.
And now we can define what we want to exclude or to include here.
For example we want to remove this label search for and the rest will stay.
All you have here is a form that uses the get method to perform a search.
Notice that the tag has a function called Get search query.
This will bring the search term back into the form.
At every new search this function is very useful later on the scores we'll see more about it.
So let's save and then reload the page.
Not bad but as you can see the appearance is still a little ugly.
To fix that let's modify our boot CSSA classes a little
and let's also replace this word here with an OK let's just save everything and go back to the thing
reload page.
So now it's much better.
Ok that's it.
Now I have a very simple search form.
If you want it we could also remove this button which will force the user to use the Enter key to do
the search but do not do that.
OK I have two exercises to propose to you.
The first one is to try to load the search form here at the sidebar.
That's easy but I think a little.
How could you do that.
The second one is a bit more complicated and I'll bring the correct answer in the next lesson.
Notice that among the search results we also have pages not just posts as you know pages don't have
categories so in the search results we have the word category followed by an empty space.
How did you remove this snippet here.
For every search results related to a page I can't search for a WordPress function called has category.
In the next lesson I'll be back with the answer.
Joe then unhappy calling.